PR Tracking Initial Release (#4)
temporalio/skill-temporal-developer: references/python/patterns.md

- **Signaling existing workflows** - Send signals to workflows started elsewhere
- **Cancellation of other workflows** - Cancel workflows from a coordinating workflow

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self, target_workflow_id: str) -> None:
    # Get handle to external workflow
    handle = workflow.get_external_workflow_handle(target_workflow_id)

    # Signal the external workflow
    await handle.signal(TargetWorkflow.data_ready, data_payload)

    # Or cancel it
    await handle.cancel()
```

## Parallel Execution

### WHY: Execute multiple independent operations concurrently for better throughput
### WHEN:
- **Batch processing** - Process multiple items simultaneously
- **Fan-out patterns** - Distribute work across multiple activities
- **Independent operations** - Operations that don't depend on each other's results

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self, items: list[str]) -> list[str]:
    # Execute activities in parallel
    tasks = [
        workflow.execute_activity(
            process_item, item,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        )
        for item in items
    ]
    return await asyncio.gather(*tasks)
```

> ### Deterministic Alternatives to asyncio

Reviewer: May be worth a quick clarification that this is because these two calls in CPython use `set` which is non-deterministic

Use Temporal's deterministic alternatives for safer concurrent operations:

```python
# workflow.wait() - like asyncio.wait()
done, pending = await workflow.wait(
    futures,
    return_when=workflow.WaitConditionResult.FIRST_COMPLETED
)

# workflow.as_completed() - like asyncio.as_completed()
for future in workflow.as_completed(futures):
    result = await future
    # Process each result as it completes
```

## Continue-as-New

### WHY: Prevent unbounded event history growth in long-running or infinite workflows
### WHEN:
- **Event history approaching 10,000+ events** - Temporal recommends continue-as-new before hitting limits
- **Infinite/long-running workflows** - Polling, subscription, or daemon-style workflows
- **Memory optimization** - Reset workflow state to reduce memory footprint

**Recommendation:** Check history length periodically and continue-as-new around 10,000 events.

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self, state: WorkflowState) -> str:
    while True:
        state = await process_batch(state)

        if state.is_complete:
            return "done"

        # Continue with fresh history before hitting limits

>         if workflow.info().get_current_history_length() > 10000:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        if workflow.info().is_continue_as_new_suggested():
```

            workflow.continue_as_new(args=[state])
```

## Saga Pattern (Compensations)

### WHY: Implement distributed transactions with compensating actions for rollback
### WHEN:
- **Multi-step transactions** - Operations that span multiple services
- **Eventual consistency** - When you can't use traditional ACID transactions
- **Rollback requirements** - When partial failures require undoing previous steps

**Important:** Compensation activities should be idempotent - they may be retried.

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self, order: Order) -> str:
    compensations: list[Callable[[], Awaitable[None]]] = []

    try:
        await workflow.execute_activity(
            reserve_inventory, order,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        )

>         compensations.append(lambda: workflow.execute_activity(

Reviewer: Depends on use case, but often compensations need to be added before the activity, because what if the activity code succeeds but the failure is in reporting to server or racy timeout after complete something? https://temporal.io/blog/compensating-actions-part-of-a-complete-breakfast-with-sagas#a-quick-note-on-ordering-of-compensations covers this a bit. At the least, AI should be told about why you might want to.

            release_inventory, order,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        ))

        await workflow.execute_activity(
            charge_payment, order,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        )
        compensations.append(lambda: workflow.execute_activity(
            refund_payment, order,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        ))

        await workflow.execute_activity(
            ship_order, order,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=5)
        )

        return "Order completed"

    except Exception as e:
        workflow.logger.error(f"Order failed: {e}, running compensations")
        for compensate in reversed(compensations):
            try:
                await compensate()
            except Exception as comp_err:
                workflow.logger.error(f"Compensation failed: {comp_err}")
        raise
```

> ## Cancellation Handling

Reviewer: Needs to clarify somewhere this leverages traditional asyncio cancellation. There are some quirks about asyncio cancellation being an event instead of a state like every other SDK, but not sure if we want to get into those details.

- **Changing activity calls** - Modify activity parameters or logic
- **Deprecating features** - Gradually remove old code paths

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self) -> str:
    if workflow.patched("new-greeting"):
        # New implementation
        greeting = await workflow.execute_activity(
            new_greet_activity,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=1)
        )
    else:
        # Old implementation (for replay)
        greeting = await workflow.execute_activity(
            old_greet_activity,
            schedule_to_close_timeout=timedelta(minutes=1)
        )

    return greeting
```

## Timers

### WHY: Schedule delays or deadlines within workflows in a durable way
### WHEN:
- **Scheduled delays** - Wait for a specific duration before continuing
- **Deadlines** - Set timeouts for operations
- **Reminder patterns** - Schedule future notifications

```python
@workflow.run
async def run(self) -> str:
    # Wait for 1 hour
    await asyncio.sleep(3600)

    # Or with workflow-specific API
    await workflow.sleep(timedelta(hours=1))

    return "Timer fired"
```

> ## Local Activities

Reviewer: We need to explain why these are discouraged most of the time
